when I got into the Ford Fusion Hybrid
and didn't notice anything unusual
that's when I knew Ford really had a
shot at North American Car of the Year
it drives like a regular car it looks
like a regular car but it gets 41 miles
per gallon in the city in case you were
opening another browser window just then
come back to me I said 41 miles per
gallon in this city power so the great
thing is you get the most fuel-efficient
midsize sedan and the Ford Fusion Hybrid
but it's also a fun to drive car so
you've got plenty of room here family
and all your stuff that goes in the
trunk
it's a great everyday driver in fact you
won't even notice when you go between
gasoline and electrical power it's a
very smooth transition
Lisa Brock is Ford's product news
manager she's also pregnant I have a
feeling that by the time her kid enters
kindergarten hybrids will be as common
as navigation systems are today speaking
of navigation navigation destination
home
this Ford Fusion Hybrid has the
Microsoft Sync system with a touchscreen
loyal viewers of real world test drive
may remember the wrestling match I got
into with the Sync system on the Taurus
SHO there's simply no comparison this
sync system with the touchscreen
actually gives you options on the screen
if it doesn't know exactly what you just
said once you get used to the system you
can control almost everything with voice
commands temperature 6 8 the voice
commands let you control the climate
inside the car and if you have the
Sirius travel link they can only give
you the five-day forecast the Fusion
Hybrid can even give you the ski report
if you're more into watching sports than
playing them diffusion hybrid can also
give you the sports scores
speaking of scoring if you're on a date
and like most guys you didn't plan ahead
the Fusion Hybrid can even help you out
there movie listings and when the final
credits roll and it's time to roll to a
restaurant you can either just say I'm
hungry and the magic Genie inside the
dashboard will tell you which
restaurants are closest or she can sort
by types of food all this new technology
is amazing but what about driver
distraction just because this car has
enough airbags to make the paramedics
think you or bubble-wrapped you don't
really want to test them do you have a
driver distraction lab in Dearborn
Michigan and study drivers and their
reactions and if there's a future that
what would really come in handy I'm not
just this car but a lot of cars big mute
button pushed right there that mutes the
cell phone the radio the navigation
system and anything else that's
distracting you while you're trying to
drive the Ford Fusion Hybrid is perfect
for road warriors this 110 volt outlet
in the bag is perfect for charging your
laptop or your cell phone but it's also
great for people who want to try to eat
healthy on the road the Waring folks
lend us a blender and we asked Brad
Harbor the personal trainer at Fitness
lifestyles in Asbury Park New Jersey to
tell us what he would tell his clients
to make a smoothie we have protein
powder a banana and low-fat peanut
butter so with the protein powder we're
replacing a meal as we get in the
calories carbohydrates and
we also had peanut butter to get some
sugar and good starches in the body for
energy and the banana list because that
give us potassium this way we don't
cramp up and we're sitting in the car
all day where if we worked out in the
morning it gives us an advantage to not
be stiff or have muscle spasms
throughout the day
obviously we already warned you about
distracted driving don't try to make the
smoothie while cruising the interstate
something that Ford is done that's
really smart
is a lot of people put stuff like their
cell phone or whatever up on the dash
and it slides all over it's a
distraction while you're driving and
also you can break your phone Ford's
created this little storage area up here
so you just put your BlackBerry in there
and close it and there you go like most
hybrids the Ford Fusion Hybrid gets much
better mileage in stop-and-go city
traffic than it does on the highway
that's the opposite of regular internal
combustion engines in other words the
car you're driving at the reason is city
driving is usually at lower speeds which
mean you are using the electric motor
rather than the gasoline engine
additionally when you're stopped at a
light there's no idling the electric
motor just kind of pauses until you're
ready to go
Ford's new easy fuel capitalist gas tank
means you don't have to twist on and off
a gas cap ford says the catalyst gas
tank is more environmentally friendly
because unnecessary fumes don't beat
into the air and also your hand doesn't
smell like gasoline the capitalist tank
is also good for people with arthritis
Lisa Brock tells us at the city mile
which is so good in the Fusion Hybrid
that you can run around Manhattan for
700 miles before filling up again
considering the island of Manhattan is
just about 13 miles long that may take
you a while if you go shopping on your
trip on like some other hybrids this
plenty of room in the trunk so plenty of
room in the backseat with a hundred and
fifty six horsepower and a zero to 60
time of 8.7 seconds you're not really
giving up anything to be as green as
Kermit I can still have enough
acceleration to get myself on the
highway but I'm also doing it in a
fuel-efficient fashion and there's no
compromise situation there oh and in
case you were wondering yes the Ford
Fusion Hybrid did win North American Car
of the Year for 2010 which is one of the
most prestigious prizes in the business
and you won't break the bank by paying
the so called hybrid premium the Ford
Fusion Hybrid starts at twenty-seven
thousand dollars the prices tested was
33 grand I'm grant winter reporting